---
tags:
  - group
---
The Crimson Heralds are a force of elite warriors in the [[Blackwing Legion]]. 

# History
_From “The Dragon, The Princess, and the Knight, Volume 1, Chapter 2: There Once Was a Man Called Mael_

Chronicles speak of a spirited youth, bereft of deference for his station, thereby earning him the ignominious mantle of a slave under the dominion of the local lord of Dunárdal, the esteemed Lord Eamon O’Shannahan. Lord Eamon, possessed of singular proclivities, conscripted his slaves into a regiment at the vanguard of his military formations. Comprising mostly of convicted transgressors, this contingent was tasked with recipitating chaos by charging headlong into the midst of enemy ranks. The promise of absolution from their crimes loomed as an elusive reward, contingent upon surviving fifty battles – a most heinous tactic employed for the subjugation of those in servitude. Yet, perverse as it was, this stratagem yielded tactical advantages, expanding Lord Eamon’s dominion southward and quelling insurrections with ruthless efficiency. To those readers conversant with the annals of my predecessor’s oeuvre, ‘The Folly of Eamon’ would resonate. In the early reign of the previous High King Tarlach, the narrative unfolded Lord Eamon’s ambitious yet malevolent designs, his egotistical tendencies, and the planned betrayal of the crown. The coronation of young High King Tarlach stirred contentious ripples across the realm of Antir. Skepticism shrouded his authority and capability to bear the burdens of the crown. Lord Eamon numbered among the dissenters, envisioning strategic advantage in swift aggression. His fief, strategically poised west of the capital and astride the River Ardentide, fueled aspirations of a decisive strike, buttressed by naval support.

Alas, this nefarious stratagem materialized into naught but “The Folly of Eamon.” In a fateful night, inebriated from revelry, Lord Eamon and his retinue fell prey to a brewing storm. A figure, Mael, emerged from the shackles of servitude, rallying his fellow slaves to assail the manor and exact vengeance upon the misguided lord. Seizing incriminating evidence, the band of emancipated slaves fled toward the capital, where their valiant efforts found favor with High King Tarlach. Impressed by their loyalty, High King Tarlach extended clemency, forming a new unit within the royal army: the Crimson Heralds. This illustrious band, comprising men and women of diverse backgrounds, earned the privilege of fighting for the crown upon proving their mettle. Mael, the erstwhile leader of the slave revolt, ascended to command this distinguished unit, establishing a legacy of training elite warriors for the Crimson Heralds.

As years unfurled, Mael met his end in the crucible of battle. His legacy, however, endured, as the Crimson Heralds perpetuated the storied tradition of training elite warriors. Knowledge of the Crimson Heralds becomes pivotal when reflecting upon the [[Three Kings War|succession]] following High King Tarlach’s demise. Aidan MacMael, then at the helm of the Crimson Heralds, pledged allegiance to Lasairian, becoming instrumental in the tumultuous conflict known as the Three Kings War.