---
tags:
  - journey
  - private
draft: true
---
Juniper suggests that they all gather for a meal, and asks Willow to help gather everyone. 

Each person gets to describe where they are and what they're doing when they're collected.

Once they're all gathered, Juniper remembers that they offered to help Farmer Wurm on the edge of town take care of his pigs today. Asks the party if they'll help, since "many hands make light work". 

When the party arrives at the farm, on the eastern edge of town, Farmer Wurm is irate at Juniper being "late", and in his anger, accidentally looses the pigs. The party must somehow herd a dozen enthusiastic pigs back into their pen.

Don't set Juniper up on the map during pig-herding. When the party finishes, they're nowhere to be seen - but Wurm insists that the group help him take care of the pigs. It takes almost an hour, and by the time they finish around sunset, they can see large amounts of smoke rising from the town square.

>[!recite] Town Square
>Entering the town square, you find the source of the smoke. Buildings all around the edges are catching fire, people starting to flee the flames. Among those people, you see strange figures. They walk in a slow shamble, as if wounded, and when one turns towards you, you see that its eyes and mouth are dripping with some sort of liquid flame that ignites the ground where it lands.
>
>But this is all background to the scene in the middle of the square. 
>
>A hulking figure stands in the ruined fountain in the center of the square. Wearing massive armor that looks like it's made of greyish dead wood, adorned with furs and spikes and bones. There's a massive sword, also made of that strange wood and bone, slung across its back. It's head is a deer's antlered skull, and in the shadows beneath it you see eyes that glow bright green.
>
>Its hand is extended, and wrapped around the throat of Silas Beaumont. He stands on the edge of the fountain, eyes wide, but the hand doesn't seem to be constricting him. Instead you hear him chanting something - and after just a second, you recognize the verses. It's a prayer known as the Litany Against Evil.
>
>After another moment you realize that this figure is frozen completely still, as if unable to tighten its grip and silence the priest.
>
>As you all enter the square, the priest's eyes dart towards you. His chanting does not stop, but you see him look to you, then to the burning buildings and shambling figures, then back to you. You get the impression that he's begging you to help. As he does so, he falters on a single syllable - and the grip around his throat tightens just a fraction.
>
>Willow, you listen to his words and realize that he's nearing the end of the Litany. There are six verses remaining.

Silas is holding back the knight while the party rescues people from burning buildings/zombies (burning zombies? bleed flame?)

>so it is that all things wicked will find their place beyond this world.
>Let those penitent be redeemed, as Her mercy knows no bounds
>But so too is her might boundless against those who deny redemption
>We will not be drawn to sin by those with evil intent.
>May that which would taint this world be vanquished.
>And may Her light shine over us forever more

Party wins their section or time runs out.

Play fire/screams noises [https://open.spotify.com/track/2iyqyfU56TooPlXA1uRAx4?si=32ce9ef86d3644f7](https://open.spotify.com/track/2iyqyfU56TooPlXA1uRAx4?si=32ce9ef86d3644f7)

>[!recite] After party wins their bit of the fight, as the knight strikes down the ally and holds them aloft.
>"May Her light shine over this world forever more." The last word of the Litany Against Evil echoes out across the square. You hear a single word from the priest, as if he's attempting to begin another prayer. "And-huk!" he is cut off as the hand around his throat tightens.
> 
> As this twisted figure returns to motion, the remnants of the fires roar up around you - as if they, too, have been freed from their bonds. 
>
>Willow: Flame fills all your senses. Lashes of red trail across your skin. Smoke fills your mouth and lungs, strengthening the taste of soot every time you cough. Sulfurous stench fills your nose when you try to bring air back in. The crackle of snapping wood almost manages to drown out the screams filling the distance.
>
>Your eyes come to rest on the figure that caused all this. The red backdrop reflects off the spikes of its armor, illuminating it against the night sky. You see the priest in its grasp. You desperately need it to release him, more than anything in the world, you want it to loosen its grasp.
>
>As if it can sense the weight of your desperation, it turns towards you. From behind the deer-skull that obscures the face, you see two eyes, glowing green, regarding you with… not hatred. Not even malice. No, you feel the sheer weight of its indifference, and it crushes you as the flames rise up around you.

Black Knife boss music?

Thistle breaks a bit of the mask to show Juniper's face
Obliterate Thistle
Say something about "The book... the body..." and look east before setting out.