---
tags:
  - private
  - incomplete
draft: true
---
# On the Road
Travel 
- By road (safer) or through forest (faster)
- What does the party's camping setup look like?
- campfire card?

# Esquire Aralia of the Grasping Vine
The party are halted on their course by a tangle of vines. Before them stands a tall figure - almost seven feet - made entirely of vines, holding a sword made of some dark metal.

"Halt, minions of foul Autumn! You shall no longer trespass in my domain! Surrender yourselves to me, Esquire Aralia of the Grasping Vine, and I may have some small mercy upon you."

The spirit rolls a +3 deception check to fool the party - because they are, in fact, a much smaller creature stacked atop two others in the vague shape of a person. A successful Nature check will also reveal that Esquire is a laughably low rank - in fact, Aralia is specifically the ruler of "vines that trip people".

They believe that the party are minions of Juniper. If convinced otherwise, they offer the party the cold iron sword they wield ("we can barely hold it, it's freezing hot") and a **Stone of Encouragement**.

If the party fail to convince them or attack, they fight alongside two others that were disguised as vines on each flank (a total of five **Weak Vine Leshy**)

# Ruined Village - Brynhill
>[!recite] Byrnhill
>The entrance to a town appears around the bend of the road. You have passed through a few small towns over the past few days, quiet places not unlike Elmhollow, populated mostly by farmers and hunters. Each of these towns has been fortunate, and laid outside the path carved through the woods by the undead pack you follow.
>
>It is immediately clear that this place was not so fortunate. The trail through the woods intersects with the road just before the entrance to the town, and by the footprints in the dirt before you, it seems the horde  passed straight through this humble village.

The party pass by Brynhill, a village on the edge of the small kingdom of Havlin. Juniper's trail goes straight through it.

The people here have a few issues.
- The Duke's daughter was in the town square when Juniper passed through, and one of the ghouls whispered something in her ear. Since then, the girl has been acting feral, and seems to be craving raw meat. The duke begs the party for aid, and promises a great reward for help curing her.
	- She is suffering from a ghoul's Forbidden Cravings, and if not treated, she will eventually die - and possibly rise as a ghoul.
	- She can be treated by 4th-rank _cleanse affliction_ or the [Break Curse](https://2e.aonprd.com/Feats.aspx?ID=5128) skill feat from an occult or religious Master. Or she can be killed
	- He will pay the party **8 gold** if they can find someone to help

- There are several wounded and several dead. The town needs injuries treated, graves dug, and bodies buried.
	- If they assist at all with the dead, a Lucentian townswoman asks Willow to give a proper funeral for her husband.
		- If it goes well, the woman offers Willow a **crying angel pendant**, saying that it belonged to her husband, and he would want her to have it

# Fire and Storm
The next night, at camp. Is there a fire? Does someone cook? Or is it just cold rations then bedtime

Campfire card

During the night, a few drops of rain hit and the sound of distant thunder warn of a heavy oncoming storm, how does the party react?

Suddenly a bolt of lightning strikes a tree stump right next to camp. In the aftermath, lights dance in the party's vision. Then as their vision clears, the lights... remain. And start zipping around the camp. A fight with four lightning **Sprites** ensues, and the heavy rain causes the sprites to be obscured. As lightning sprites, each must spend an action every round moving or take 1d4 mental damage 

# Havelburg
The party pass through Havelburg, the capital of [[Havlin]], on the road. There's an adventurer's guild here, where Thistle may want to stop.

Thistle has likely been here once or twice. Rock has a generally good reputation here, but the guild receptionist Briah knows about Belthanos and doesn't like him.

Here they meet the [[Doomed Party]], who are about to embark on a mission to investigate a missing party of copper ranks, who were sent out to investigate some lesser undead to the east. They invite the party to accompany them, in case their two mission are related.

# Coppers Spent
Eventually Juniper's path veers slightly, and the group find the bodies of a human and two tengu, in simple leather armor with swords and spears by their sides. Two have been torn apart by ghouls, but one of the tengu has been nearly bisected - and burned - by some kind of blade. There are also the bodies of a handful of regular zombies - once farmers, based on their dress - that are clearly weeks old.

The spent coppers have a handful of silver between them, a single minor healing potion, and one of the humans wielded an enchanted (+1) wood axe.

The doomed party loot the corpses, intending to return the loot to the guild so it can go to the adventurer's families. With hard expressions, they continue east, feeling obligated to try to stop Juniper and their ghouls.

If the party return this loot to a Guild branch, they are rewarded with **2 gold** and are given the **+1  weapon potency rune** to keep (**runestone** free of charge).