_Perhaps screamed raw through salted tears on a stone altar in the Athraithe groves? Perhaps not._ 

_[[Witch|Witches]].. is that what you expected? Dark and evil ritual held by torchlight and rune circle? Oh, traveler, is there a tale to tell…_

A small farmhouse rests in a valley field on a calm and quiet night. Iron nails hammered into doorways. Salt sprinkled in windowsills. Candles lit in every room ever burning. Arcane sigils mix with angel wings to show a support for the Lumina and a warning to those who follow the spirits. 

A Small Town of No Title, A Daughter of No Name: “Father! We are of great fortune! I have gone to check the cattle and we must have had the sickly calf grow strong, for there is an extra in the herd! I now stand at the feeding trough! A miracle of god, Lumina Bless us! The Light still reaches us this close to the woods!” 

A Small Town of No Title, A Father of No Significance: “GIRL. TO YOUR QUARTERS. I DO NOT CARE FOR THE WATER RATIONS. WASH YOURSELF CLEAN. DID IT TOUCH YOU? DID IT PIERCE YOUR SKIN?” 

A Small Town of No Title, A Second Daughter of Negligible Importance: “Of course you do this now. You’re such a child. You know the darkness is not safe and yet you worry mother and father sick with your incessant tending to the animals. They are tools, not pets. I am tired of your endless drive to run away from Her Light and Protection into the night and get yourself killed by a witch, or worse!”

Daughter: “No father… sister…well it came to me as I called and put its nose gently to my palm.. I felt so special. Like I was one with the animals and they really listened to me. The night was so calm and the trees were silent of their rustling for just a moment. It was beautiful, you just do not understand. I always bring a candle. The light is always with me….. Father I truly did not see any disease I do not see the need to run a bath…” 

Father: “Stupid girl I thought I raised you better. Your sister will take care of you once again. Go draw a bucket from the interior well and boil it. Scrub until it’s raw and we should hope you do not grow leaves or ferns from your skin in the morning. I will go remedy this. The wickedness calls to you child. But I will not let it take you. Do not follow me. If it is truly a gift we shall feast tomorrow in Her name… but it is not. Especially in these times I am sure of it. There are much more important spiritual workings for the Light to grace upon. If I am not back by sunrise, call your mother and my brother at the church and let her know they can open the chest in the attic.”

A drawn bath from cherished resources growing scarce. The sound of boots hitting hardwood. The sharp clicking of an iron crossbow bolt into chamber. Moonlight reflected off of skin slick with sweat. A father storms with purpose. One daughter boils a second pot of water at the furthest room of a house, anointing it with holy oil and lantern ash…. Another daughter slips past and silently follows, dripping water onto a thirsty grass starving and bone dry from a seemingly endless summer. 

A cattle pen stands in the distance, a well worn path from days of hard labor lead to its gates. The crunch of gravel underfoot. The cows stand in a line, near perfect. At the feeding troughs. The father is frantic. Looking at each of them from a distance just out of their reach, arrow tip pointed by a restless trigger finger ready and eager to shoot. He takes the point of the weapon and moves their lips, revealing their teeth one by one. They all seem unaware or apathetic to the threat before them. He moves onto getting a little closer, inspecting the spots on their hides. The daughter peeks around a hay bale the size of her small frame. She is confused. Why rebuke such a gift from god? She was raised on miracles and living on scarcity. Such an extra source of milk and meat should be celebrated! Especially when they struggle so much to continue making a living on the edge of the woods that seems to grow darker every year and absorb the sunlight meant to hit their crop fields. Nobody could prove it, and nobody would talk about it. Especially to someone as young as her. She knew that there was more going on… ghosts? Demons? Witches? Fey? She had heard of such things and the signs of them in town and how to drive them out…. Could this be? 

At that moment. The father yells out. All of the cows are nearly identical, except for one. He turns its face to the sky. The moonlight. It’s swallowed so greedily by the black pupils. No reflection of light bounces back off its eyes. Those big eyes. She could feel the sadness in them. There was something more. Was it something evil hiding in wait? Was it desperation after running away from something worse? She felt it reach out to her…. Driven to move, she emerges from behind the haybale as the Father, unnoticing, screams expletives at the creature for infiltrating his family and plotting their slaughter. Words are heard. “Druid” “Shapeshifter” “Creature Against God” “Cursed With Nature” “Impure and Contagious Sinner”. He does not offer for whatever it is to leave first, he pushes the arrow tip to its forehead. It turns to look directly at the girl and cries out in a guttural human scream. She screams back. The father whips around and pulls the trigger. The arrow hits its mark directly in her chest.

She dies silent. 

The father drops the weapon. The other cows trample away into the safety of the barn. A whisper from the remaining bull. “What have you done.” 

A second sister notices the absence of her ward… and bursts out the front door, just in time to witness the final scene. A cattle standing up on two legs, one arm morphing from hoof to hand, and slicing the Fathers throat with naught but jagged fingernail. A crossbow lays beneath him now christened with his blood. He dies gurgling. Thrown against the hay bale. The thing picks up the body of the younger sister, cradles it in its normal arm as gentle as mother to child, and drags the both of them off into the woods. 

The older sister stayed in the doorway. Was it cowardice, was it proper caution? She would never forgive herself. Word got out quickly. The daughter of the church ensured it. Based on what she saw….The fey and their witches were more than boogeyman stories told to keep children in at night. They were infiltrating families. Spying through the eyes of cat and cattle. Killing innocent children. Taking their bodies into the woods to use for horrible spells and sacrifices to the spirits. Don’t let any animals in your house. Spies and tempters. Check your livestock, keep your pets outside. Be wary of birdsong… look for her light in their eyes before deciding you’re safe. 

Creatures suspected of such nefarious purpose, as well as occasionally those who seem much too eager to defend them… are punished publicly. There is a stone altar in an open square at the edge of the town where the last houses meet the woods. It is built of religious fervor. Perhaps a mockery of witches rituals? Perhaps an earnest proclamation of what is believed to be a proper expression of power given by faith… Dangerously close to the paths that are rumored to lead to Druid groves, [[Hag]] treehouses, and witches’s huts. the beasts are trialed in front of a crowd, flayed, and served to churchgoers at dinner. Sometimes they are normal, and sometimes they speak in plain common and beg for mercy. It is never given.