---
tags:
  - creature
  - lore
aliases:
  - Lycan
  - Lycanthrope
  - Werewolves
  - Lycanthropes
---
Werewolves, also known as Lycanthropes, are a type of wolf-like beastfolk native to [[Antir]]. Like [[Kitsune]], they are able to change between a wolf-like form and that of another mortal ancestry. Uniquely, they are also able to transmit this ability (known as *Lupinotuum Insania*, or more commonly, *Lycanthropy*) to others through bites.

# The Wolf God
The god of the Lycan has no name, though some call it the Mad Wolf, or simply the Hunt. As of 960 BR, the wolf god was obsessed with transforming or killing all non-lycanthrope mortals. It could speak in the minds of lycanthropes that didn't possess the Weremark, urging them towards violence.

# The Weremark
The Weremark is a magical brand that inhibits the abilities of lycanthropes. Developed by [[Cianan of Antir]] and the Bouchard family of enchanters sometime around 940 BR, it was systematically placed on all known werewolves as an alternative to their extermination. The mark was always placed somewhere easily visible, such as the neck, face, or hands, as a warning to those around the lycanthrope.

Werewolves bearing the mark cannot transform at will - instead, they transform compulsively during each full moon, when the Wolf God's power is strongest. This is also the only time they are able to transmit their condition. Marked lycanthropes also lose their connection to the Wolf God.

# Wulvs
A group of 15 werewolves who hunt [[Spirits#Demons|Demons]] across Antir, and can be reborn in a willing host after death. See [[Demon Hunter#Wulvs]].

# Taming of the Mad Wolf
>_Excerpts from the Journal of Mx. [[Valerie Bouchard]]._ Prize Fighter, Renegade, Corsair Molossus of the Katze’s Keel, Lycanthrope, Unpredictable Adventurer of the Wild Mountains. 
>_Date: Unknown_ 

My labor is almost done. Countless years scouring the country for bits and pieces of parchment and oral records whispered quietly so the wind wouldn’t hear. I have finally finished it. The Tale of the Feral God rests fully in my hands and I may finally have the keys to severing our connection. I hate how much I’m wrestling with the idea. I don’t fear death, I’ve lived more than enough in my time and could use the relaxation, I think what I fear more is starting over again if it leaves me alone with my thoughts. Perhaps I will be able to repair the damage and right what has been done. There grows a strange, stockholmed comfort in knowing you are always heard, whether you like or not. Regardless, the history shall be known and the restless dead shall howl desperately no more in the back of my mind. 

## Tale of the Feral God: A Brief Chronicle of Lupinotuum Insania
Author’s note: As comprehensive as recorded history and my limits allow. 

The wolf-kin were a bestfolk tribe like any other, known by the name Lycan. They, like most beastfolk, had only a single form - a bipedal figure, furred and wolf-headed. They worshipped a god whose name, if it ever had one, is now unknown. A god of the hunt and the wilds. A being of nature and instinct itself who greatly distrusted "civilized" cultures and preferred the untamed ferocity of the northern woods. When the Antirans first arrived in the area, the lycan paid them no mind. But eventually their territories began to grow, and encroach uncomfortably close to their isolated settlements. The lycan feared this, and entreated their god for aid. 

So they were given a gift, twofold. The first was the ability to transform themselves, in order to blend in with their new prey. The second was the ability to transform _others_, to expand the pack and ensure the hunt could continue. It was not a gift of malice, but of preservation. A way to assimilate and accelerate natural evolution. It was a highly sacred rite, and most importantly, a willing one. Some curious travelers had chosen to visit and ultimately stay with the lycans, exchanging traditions and beginning the process of peaceful coexistence. Unfortunately, as it is with most novel things introduced to a settling civilization grasping for survival, that was not how the culture was perceived by those vying for social power and control. When visiting Alturon socialites saw the nearby Lycan villiages, and did not like the idea of the lycans ability allowing beast folk walking among humanoids undetected. Rumors of mutated, uncivilized ferocity so close to their children populated the courts. Stories spiraled until Alturon bards cried in town squares about new terrors from the forest.

King Tarlach, too busy with other matters to personally investigate, and informed by the advice of his council, acted swiftly and decisively. To halt the spread of this infection, the Lycan villiage was to be culled, none spared from the flame. General MacMael led the assault, and it's said that the horrors he enacted there led to his retirement soon after. Some few Lycan survived the purge, and Tarlach intended to see them rooted out and finished. But with the help of the Bouchard family runesmiths, young Prince [[Cianan of Antir|Cianan]] developed an alternative - the Wolfmark, a runic tattoo that would inhibit the powers of the mad wolf god at all times - except during the height of its power, during the full moon. This would be the only time Marked lycan would be able to fully transform, and the only time they could spread their mad god's influence to others. 

What the royal family and their surrounded trustees never knew, is that they had caused the wolf god’s madness in the first place. 

The lycan hunt, ancient nameless god of the wilds, was fading with the encroach of civilization. As it gave the last of their power to permanently give the last of their people a way to evolve with society… A new god had to be born to take their place. A transfer of power into something not so rooted in the knotted ways of the old Forrest. A divine child meant to give the lycan people a new beginning and experience the joy of growing with them in time, a god directly inspired by the spirit of its people.

Instead. This god was born in bloodshed. An outstretched hand immediately encumbered with the weight of all of the expected knowledge and history of the lycan people, but also the crippling burden their rage and dying cries at the betrayal of Alturon. A deity baptized in the sudden viscera of its community’s welcoming arms. With nothing to grab onto but devastation, the immense power splintered into fractured pieces that hungered desperately for something to sink into and stabilize. The Hunt had changed. It was no longer the natural divinity in the balanced cycle of life and death. The give and take that allows earth to renew itself and learn in time. It was now a version of endless seeking and hunger that human society has infringed on it. A forever dying child that couldn’t find itself or its purpose in a world that had forsaken harmony in favor of efficiency and innovation. The last natural thing the being did was descend into madness at the circumstances. 

For those left after the Night of The Broken Moon, as it would come to be known, their fate was possibly the most tragic of all. Their boom became an infection. An affliction beyond mortal medicine. Each harboring a shard of nature’s primal wrath. A piece of formless, intangible rage. Painful and sharp. Like bottled lightning seeking endlessly to release its energy and reconnect with the earth. The pain of their packmates howled in their minds, and they began to lash out in desperation. Finding that giving in and spreading the curse could temporarily soften the feeling of a mind splintering.

A prophecy self-fulfilled, the Lycan became the sub-human monsters they were rumored to have always been. Either roaming the remaining woods and giving into the feral fear, forever trapped in a hulking form of fur and teeth, personality lost deep within…or as branded humanoids forced into servitude for the bloody jobs nobody else wanted to take. The brand forever visible and a sign of a loose canon that needed to be kept on a tight leash by a gloved hand. Never trusted to feel the warmth of a loving touch. Beaters, brutes, assassins, gravediggers, contracted killers. Kept far away from the eyes of common society, and of eachother. Their reputation for senseless wolfish brutality and push into the nocturnal underbelly of society, working by moonlight, is where the term “lunacy” arose in common slang. The wolf mark was an imperfect solution. Powerful enough to suppress the spread of the curse and its bodily consequences, but not the source. It was a cage too small for its inhabitor. A design made for a beast without compassion. A perpetuator of the negative cycle. Solitary confinement always furthers insanity. A pacing dog’s tightly wound spring. A ticking time bomb waiting to go off.

## My Work with Lupinotuum Insania
_Journal date: unknown._ 

**-presumably written from within her room at the canopy of The Howling Tree**

I am a primary source. A scholar of my own disease. From the day I was struck down with this affliction I have made it my personal mission to see it understood. The guild knows of my journals and have copied the important parts within their contents to sneak into a multitude of libraries around the continent. I am a proud sponsor of their unorthodox way of disseminating knowledge. In a vague summarization, my experience with the Hunt has been tumultuous at best, and deprave at worst. I do not wish to speak back into existence the atrocities I have committed. Instead, I am elated to report that I have mastered control of my emotional states over time, and have come to realize that the voice it speaks in is but a manipulated echo of the ancestors rather than a direct connection to the lycan that turns you. It was such a hungry thing, isolated and scared. I saw a portion of myself within it, and I knew that I could guide it to a better place. I have worked long and hard to ground this force with nature and to calm the cries for vengeful retribution. I have been told by Darios that faith and the forces that are bound to it tend to be shaped by the will of the believers. I regret that he is off on a solo envoy trip at the moment and I cannot pick his brain for more. But I am working under this theory in hopes that I may be the only true follower left of the Hunt in its fractured state, and ,as its champion, may be able to steer it towards a path of retribution and bring back the wild in the wilderness that humanity’s ignorance had so violently stolen.

I can feel its grip on me soften. Not to let go. But perhaps to pull the teeth out of the hand that feeds. I have heard from the few other lycan of my time that the burn of the mark has begun to subside. Their urges under the moon have grown avoidant of humanoids, instead driving towards deer and more natural prey. The plants outside my window seem greener, the mushrooms are more abundant, and I hear less and less these days about the animals here killing for the sake of the game. To my own disappointment and my Yvonne’s elation, I’ve hung up my boxing gloves for now. I cannot deny the drive I have to dance again. I will revel in the slow and patient progress, but the day approaches soon where I confront it for a final time. I wonder if can stop her bleeding. She was so connected to the natural energy in things. I still don’t know much of the workings of wisdoms, but perhaps it could finally give her rest. I will contact Hemlocke and ask him to keep an eye on the room while I am preoccupied with my duty here. It seems his teeth have too grown softer over the years, and I find him much more enjoyable in his retirement. Maybe the Hunt has its claws in all beastfolk, or he has just finally settled into a peaceful routine.

Regardless, a decision will be made soon. Balance will be restored, or I am the Hunt’s final prey and my old and weary fangs will sink into its back and take it down with me. 

I still have much ambition and belief in a better world, I hope that it is enough to echo in the howl of many beastfolk to come.