---
tags:
  - group
---
The Catsi Coven is a collection of witches, wisdoms, and other rural elders founded by [[Ninyva O'Niamh]] in 953 BR. It has since grown to become a loose governing body over all primal casters in [[Antir]], meeting once per decade in [[Catsi Crossing]] during a gathering known as the Eldritch Assembly.

# Members
The majority of influential witches and primal casters in Antir are members of the Coven, though most are not open about this affiliation unless need arises.

- [[Ninyva O'Niamh]] (Founder)(Deceased?)
- [[Wisdom Sawyer]] (Deceased)
- Wisdom Penelope of Marigold (Deceased)
- The Zauberei Trio (Deceased)
	- Three former wisdoms of [[Zauberei]] who migrated to Catsi Crossing some time after 953 BR.

# History
Six months after the Witch Queen's first death, the formal inauguration of the Antir Witch Coven occurred. Taking place over the span of thirteen days, this gathering was one of the first great cultural exchanges in the history of the Antiran continent, with wisdoms and druids and alchemists and hedgemages from all across the land gathering the in the burnt remnants of Catsi Crossing in northern Antir. Ultimately, this premiere gathering accomplished a few things. Firstly, it established the purpose of the Coven: to protect the little people of Antir through the network of Wisdoms, and the protection of spirits and magic. Secondly, it established who was in charge. Though there wasn't an official leader of the Coven, very quickly one group gained influence throughout the group: three elder witches based out of the city of Zauberei, who held rather extreme views on what should be done to advance the group's goals. This trio would play a large part in outlining how the Wisdoms should operate, and would lead discussions in directions that they found desirable. Lastly, the Coven agreed to establish Catsi Crossing as the designated meeting place of the Coven, and that the witches would make the journey across the continent to the village once every ten years.

In the decades following the First Eldritch Assembly, the continent saw several changes. First and foremost, the political makeup of the villages and towns shifted. Historically, most villages have had both a village mayor and a Wisdom, or some equivalent of either, with both positions nominally holding authority over different aspects of rural life. The Wisdoms, however, generally held implicit sway over governmental decisions as they needed. Moving forward, this changed, with the witches of Antir now exerting _explicit_ control over the villages, with mayors and town councils operating openly at the behest of their primal and occult rulers. This wasn't always received well, and inter-village conflicts broke out in many locations across the continent. With their new support from the Coven, however, the witches were able to squash resistance to explicit eldritch rule. The one notable exception to this was in the city of Zauberei. Reaching the end of their lives, the trio of Zaubereien witches fled the arcane powers of the wizard college and finally settled back in Catsi Crossing, along with a number of the more zealous members of the Coven. This group rebuilt the village, and established a home for magical individuals outside the confines of the clerics of Alturon or the wizards of Zauberei. The Zauberei trio would join the Spirits Beyond shortly after, leaving behind a legacy of radicalized witches and outreaching schemes.

Time continued to pass. As was agreed, the Antir Witch Coven continued to meet every 10 years in Catsi Crossing. Each Eldritch Assembly, more and more magical outcasts would join, including Hallit shamans from the north, and even a handful of dragon-seers from the far south. Many villages had begun to grow their ranks of magic users, with many expanding from one ruling individual to a large magical ruling council. Somewhere in this time, the term "wisdom" fell out of usage, with the term "witch" landing on the lips of both the witches themselves and their subjects. In this time, Catsi Crossing itself continued to grow, as casters outside of Alturon and Zauberei felt more and more without a home. The charred buildings and salted fields that met the first Eldritch Assembly had been replaced by stone buildings, alters to the Spirits Beyond and Below, and a great meeting hall designed to hold the many witches of Antir, though it felt more and more full each decade. These meetings continued in this manner. That is, until the Autumn King attacked.

The details of the arch fae's assault on Antir have been recounted time and time again in the modern history of the world. However, one aspect that is often unaddressed is the impact this had on the witches of the land. The war against the Autumn King caused the first great schism amongst the witches. Due to the shared history of the Autumn King, the Witch Queen, and the Coven she built, opinions were split on how the witches should respond. Many fought alongside Alturon and Zauberei, fighting for the safety of the mortals of the realm. However, a non-trivial percent of Antir's witches joined the fae, believing this was the final culmination of the work of the Coven, and would finally bring peace and safety for the spirits of the world. Notably, Catsi Crossing did _not_ act one way or the other during the conflict. After the creation of the Silent Wood, many of those that joined the Autumn King followed, leaving the Coven behind for the dark forest, never to be seen again. Though, some say that the last thing many who vanish in that cursed wood hear is a distant, distorted cackling…

The Coven reconvened for the 13th Eldritch Assembly with an air of tension. Witches of Catsi Crossing were angry with fighting alongside wizards and clerics, and rural witches were furious with Catsi Crossing for doing nothing to combat the fae incursion. Coven members had much to discuss, which led to the longest assembly in the history of the Coven. This would forever change the nature of the witches of Antir.

When the Autumn King was banished, and autumn itself was erased, and magic itself was splintered into the primal, arcane, and divine domains, one final effect covered the land, unbeknownst to those who would be most impacted. Stretching from the village of Marigold, where the Autumn King once held court, to Catsi Crossing, where the Witch Queen's heart was buried, formed the [[Strioc an Athraithe]], a region where the barrier between the materium and Tir na Nog had been thinned. Over the course of the year the witches spent in Catsi Crossing, with emotions at their highest, their bodies were especially susceptible to the meddling of the fae. It started small: a number of witches' eye colors changed, hair changed textures, accents appeared in voices that previously lacked them. However, as time went on, the changes became more and more apparent. People's eyes took on the shape of cats' eyes, individual's joints began to point at odd angles, familiars grew larger and more animalistic.

Though their bodies mutated, the witches concluded the year resolute. Transgressions from before were still unforgiven, but the Coven could see the writing on the wall. Alturon had been looking for a reason to take action against Catsi Crossing and Zauberei for decades now. Multiple witches from the countryside near the capital had been locked in dungeons or executed or worse since the formation of Antir's theocracy, and both Catsi Crossing and Zauberei had been financially punished for decades for daring to act perpendicular to the interests of the Church and Throne. The Coven knew they had to be ready to act if Alturon did something extreme. Though they left with their bodies and minds forever warped, the witches returned home knowing what they had to do.

Eventually news came of Alturon's magic ban. Following this, royal inquisitors appeared at the borders of Catsi Crossing, to purge the heresy of the witches. While Zauberei responded to a similar situation somewhat peacefully, redirecting the inquisitors away and seceding from the kingdom, the witches of Catsi Crossing, their bodies and minds heavily mutated from their extensive exposure to the Stríoc an Athraithe, responded in a different way. A few weeks later, Alturon received thirteen severed heads of the party they sent to Catsi Crossing with demands carved in both Sylvan and the Common Tongue into the faces of the heads. The message essentially contained three main points. First, Catsi Crossing and the surrounding territory were from that day forward separate from the Holy Kingdom of Antir. Secondly, the magic ban within the Holy Kingdom of Antir would _not_apply to the witches of the villages and towns. They would be entirely exempt, and able to operate as they always have, maintaining their same relationship with Catsi Crossing that they have for the last 150 years. And third, if Alturon did not abide by these terms, they would face a peasant uprising from every village where Coven members operated, as well as outright war from the full eldritch power of Catsi Crossing and its allies. Initially, Alturon called the witches' bluff, and sent a band of soldiers to Catsi Crossing to take the leaders of the Coven. At the same time, envoys were sent to each village within 100 miles of the capital to capture their resident witches. When not a single one of these soldiers or envoys were ever seen again, Alturon abided by the Coven's terms. To the dismay of the Church and Throne, witches within Antir's borders could continue to practice their heresy, and Catsi Crossing would leave the Holy Kingdom. Zauberei would not be granted these same protections, and wizardry would remain outlawed within Antir.

Moving forward, the witches of Antir would continue to operate in this way. Catsi Crossing continues to exist as a sovereign country, though the effects of the Stríoc an Athraithe continue to warp and distort the people and creatures therein. The impacts of the fae have even warped the buildings of Catsi Crossing, causing the buildings that already existed to bend and change into bizarre, unnatural shapes, and caused many structures with seemingly no practical usage to appear. The witches of the country side still rule, as well as performing the historical duties of the wisdoms of old. These rural witches still bear the mutations of Catsi Crossing, though in a much less extreme form. Relations between Catsi Crossing, Zauberei, Alturon, and the other nations that have formed in the intervening centuries have not always been peaceful, however. Catsi Crossing has not forgotten the reason for its existence: the protection of the spirits of the land, and the destruction of wizardy. Zauberei remains the witch nation's enemy. Alturon still resents the treaty between itself and the Coven, and still works against it's existence, even if not through overt war.