---
tags:
  - creature
---
The Catsi is a spirit of the forests of Antir older than civilization and humanoid history. In truth, not even the Catsi knew how old it was, not that it cared to remember such information. The Catsi was, afterall, not much more than a cat. It wandered the woods, eating as it wished, sleeping as it wished, and generally being a nuisance to any mortal or spirit that it came across. The Catsi loved pranks and being the source of mischief and chaos. The spirit was not looked upon favorably for this reason. The Catsi was best avoided or appeased. Early humanoid villages would hold festivals in honor of the Catsi, leaving out food and treats all in hope that the Catsi will leave them alone for the year. 

However, the cat spirit’s antics caught up to it when it tampered with the food of Cormac, the Eagle Spirit of the Mountains. Not considering the concept of consequences, the Catsi found itself fleeing for its life for the first time from a much greater spirit. Days and nights passed, the Catsi ironically finding itself the mouse in a game of cat and mouse. Cormac was not one to forgive or forget. 

Eventually this chase brought the pair to a small, unnamed human village along a wide river. This was a village well acquainted with the Catsi and its antics. The Catsi had no reason to expect help from these people, they had chased it away with rocks the last time it had made its presence known here. However, seeing the Catsi fleeing for its life, one woman in particular made a stand against Cormac. Gnarled wooden staff in hand and determination in heart, the woman chased the Eagle away, not relenting until she saw the spirit flying back to his mountain home. The Catsi, feeling gratitude for once, gave the woman the gift of magic. This woman was tasked with figuring out the secrets of magic. She learned, helped her people, and eventually died. Almost seemingly out of habit, the Catsi simply transferred its gift to the woman’s daughter. As time progressed, the Catsi’s patronage simply kept transferring, the cat spirit taking a strange liking to the village. This was the origin of the Wisdoms of Catsi Crossing. This story repeated throughout the region, wise-women gaining the gift of spirits of the wild one way or another and forging their own Wisdomhood. 